Summary
=======

Cross-disciplinary designer, researcher, and educator exploring software and
devices for creating environments that (1) improve users' health, (2) promote
wellbeing, and (3) enhance cognitive performance, by applying knowledge and
experience from:

*Design:* 3+ years of work at internationally-recognized design firms and
labs; experience and knowledge across multiple domains, including
architecture/interiors, graphics, experiments and surveys, software, as well
as electronics.

*Research:* Leadership and publication of multiple projects ranging from
architectural robotics to workplace wellness, with specialized expertise in
light and human circadian rhythms.

*Programming:* Development of simulation tools and applications for building
performance analysis using Python, JavaScript, C#, R (among other languages)
and version management tools (Git, Mercurial).

*Fabrication:* Project experience with a broad range of digital prototyping
workflows, including printed circuit board (PCB)layout and fabrication.

*Teaching:* Lectures, workshops, and curriculum for architecture programs at
multiple universities.



Education
=========

Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) // Cambridge, MA
------------------------------------------------------------

### Master of Science In Architecture Studies (SMArchS), Design and Computation // 2015
Thesis: *Interactive Phototherapy: Integrating Photomedicine into Interactive
Architecture*
Cumulative GPA: 4.8 (of 5.0)


Auburn University // Auburn, AL
-------------------------------

### Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) // 2012
### Bachelor of Interior Architecture (BIArch) // 2012
Honors: *Magna Cum Laude* Cumulative GPA: 3.6 (of 4.0)


 University of Alabama in Huntsville (UAH) // Huntsville, AL
------------------------------------------------------------

### (General Studies) \ 2006-2007
Cumulative GPA: 4.0 (of 4.0)



Skills
======

3D/CAD/CAE
----------
3ds Max
AutoCAD
Blender
Digital Project
Dynamo
EAGLE
Grasshopper
Inventor
Maya
Revit
Rhino 3D
SketchUp
SolidWorks

Analog Fabrication
------------------
Composites molding & casting
Microelectronics production
Model-making & prototyping
Plastics molding & casting

Building Simulation
-------------------
ALFA
DIVA
Ecotect
EnergyPlus
IES VE
OpenStudio
Radiance

CAM
---
ABB Robot Studio
CNCjs
Fab Modules (MIT)
PartWorks 2D
SurfCAM

Digital Fabrication
-------------------
3D printing
CNC milling
Laser cutting
Vinyl cutting
Waterjet cutting

Libraries/Frameworks
--------------------
Arduino SDK (C/C++)
Google Maps API (JavaScript)
Grasshopper SDK (C#, IronPython)
OpenCV (C++, Python)
TensorFlow w/Keras (Python)
Three.js (JavaScript)

Markup
------
CSS
HTML
Markdown

Media Creation
--------------
Dreamweaver
Final Cut Pro
Illustrator
InDesign
Inkscape
Photoshop
Premeire
Scribus

Programming/Scripting
---------------------
C/C++
C#
Java
JavaScript
LaTeX/BibTeX
Python
R

(Miscellaneous)
---------------
bash
CMake
Git
HDF5
libradtran
Mercurial
MS-DOS
Visual Paradigm (UML/SysML)



Recent Experience
=================

Perkins+Will // Atlanta, GA
---------------------------

### Researcher // May 2016 - June 2019

#### Neuroarchitecture Lab (formerly Human Experience Lab)

*Circadian Light Tracker*: Won and executed a firmwide "innovation incubator"
research grant to design, fabricate, and program (Arduino SDK, C/C++) a
wearable circadian light tracker equipped with 13 + 1 (spectral + photopic)
light sensors, and presented project results to the Perkins+Will Atlanta
office. (Publication and further development options currently being actively
explored.)

*Circadian Light Analysis*: Unilaterally implemented a novel, proof-of-concept
analysis tool ('pChroma') for simulating light exposure levels for building
occupants according to five spectral photosensitivity functions (i.e.,
'pentachromic' functions) recommended by the latest circadian photobiologic
research. Successfully led publication and presentation of a conference paper
detailing research & development work for the 2017 IBPSA (International
Building Performance Simulation Association) Building Simulation conference
(see Ewing et al. 2017).

*Thermal Comfort*: Reporting directly to the CEO (Phil Harrison, FAIA), led a
team of four Neuroarchitecture Lab researchers in designing and deploying an
online survey assessing employee thermal comfort in the Perkins+Will Atlanta
office, as well as evaluating and reporting survey results.

*Psychoacoustics*: Worked directly with the Neuroarchitecture Lab director
(Dr. Eve Edelstein) in deploying survey protocols for assessing speech
intelligibility, ambient noise levels, and other psychoacoustic properties of
spaces using industrial-grade sound level and noise dose meters, sound
analysis software, and building occupant hearing tests (adapted from HINT and
SIN hearing tests). Instructed Neuroarchitecture lab colleagues in conducting
measurements and surveys.

#### Energy Lab

*Simulation Platform for Energy Efficient Design (SPEED)*: Collaborated as one
of the primary software developers towards the successful beta deployment of
SPEED: an online application for Perkins+Will designers to (1) easily create
valid parametric models of common building geometries and envelope
constructions, (2) run up to thousands of energy performance simulations per
day on AWS virtual machines running OpenStudio Server, and (3) review data
visualizations and analytics of simulation results.

#### Design Process Lab

*Design Space Construction (DSC)*: Collaborated with Process Lab researchers
on the development of DSC, a tool and workflow for optimizing building design
performance based on both quantitative (e.g., EUI) and qualitative (e.g., view
quality) design performance indicators. Further collaborated on curricula, and
other assorted materials explaining the DSC methodology for a workshop at the
2016 ACADIA (Association for Computer-Aided Design in Architecture)
conference, 2017 and 2018 presentations at Autodesk University, and a 2018
journal article published in ITCon (see Haymaker et al. 2018).

*Space Plan Generator (SPG)*: Evaluated and advised algorithmic improvements
to software developers for development of software tools (Dynamo C# SDK) of
SPG, a set of Dynamo plugins for automated generation of floor plan design
options based specification of program entities and adjacencies via
spreadsheet input. Assisted in multiple internal workshops for instructing
Perkins+Will healthcare planners on how to use SPG for generating floor plan
options for client projects.

*Client Projects*: Applied the DSC methodology for advising multiple
Perkins+Will project teams on building design performance and potential
improvement strategies.

*Teaching Initiatives*: Contributed curricula and documentation for workshops
on design space construction taught to graduate-level architecture students at
the University of Washington (Seattle), as well as 4th-year architecture
undergraduate students at Auburn University.

#### Building Technology Lab

*Thermoplastic Robotics*: Collaborated with Building Technology Lab (Tech Lab)
and Autodesk BUILD space researchers in exploring designer-centric workflows
for digital fabrication of thermoformed plastic structural systems using
multiple, synchronized industrial robotic arms controlled via Grasshopper,
Dynamo, and ABB Robot Studio.

#### General

*"Stand Up to Work" Study*: Assisted in executing a 12-month study of
employees in the Perkins+Will Atlanta office, funded by ASID (American Society
of Interior Designers) and conducted in collaboration with the Center for
Active Design, the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, and Steelcase, on
standing-desk usage in the workplace. Verified that 'on-the-ground' conditions
complied with study protocols and communicated user survey instructions and
next steps to study participants and local office management.

*Gadget Lab*: Operated, maintained, and debugged a variety of environmental
testing and measurement equipment as part of an in-house 'gadget lab,'
including: sound level and noise dose meters, handheld spectrometers, a
distributed ambient temperature and relative humidity sensor kit (Pointelist),
a smart flooring system, and other devices. Instructed research colleagues on
equipment operation and advised on acquisition of additional measurement
devices.

*(Miscellaneous)*: Developed Python scripts to automate tasks for literature
search results analysis, light & sound measurement data presentation slides
generation. Implemented quasi-Monte Carlo sampling for design of experiments
(DoE) via interface with R, and a spectral daylight analytical model
(Hosek-Wilkie) as Grasshopper components using the C# SDK. Implemented
scripted automation of other administrative tasks using Python.



Changing Places Group, MIT Media Laboratory // Cambridge, MA
------------------------------------------------------------

### Project Assistant // April - May 2015

Collaborated with a team of graduate researchers and undergraduate students on
architectural design for the third iteration of CityHome: a modular,
"mix-and-match" kit of robotic actuators and sensors for creating
transformable, intelligent living spaces.

Produced design development drawings, digital models (Rhino, SketchUp), and
renderings (3ds Max) to refine development and presentation of a 350 SF built
apartment prototype.

Presented CityHome prototype (alongside project team) for an international
audience of Media Lab corporate sponsor representatives and press during the
Spring 2015 MIT Media Lab Members' Week.

### Research Assistant // January - June 2014

Led architectural design in collaboration with a team of graduate researchers
and undergraduate students for the second iteration of CityHome: a robotic
furniture module for converting a 200 SF micro-apartment space into a "smart
home" with the functionality of a space "three times its size"; incorporates
gesture, voice and touch interfaces for user control; and allows for further
customization via downloadable "apps".

Produced schematic designs, 3D  models (Rhino, Grasshopper, Autodesk
Inventor), construction drawings, hardware mockups, and G-code files (CNC
router, laser cutter, waterjet cutter) for the robotic wall unit exterior
finishes, primary structure, and portions of the mechanical hardware.

Coordinated architectural designs with the mechatronics lead for the robotic
systems.

Completed design and construction (alongside project team) of functional
robotic wall unit and full-scale 200 SF demonstration space in less than
three months for live demonstrations during the Spring 2014 MIT Media Lab
Members' Week.



Teaching Experience
===================

Auburn University // Auburn, AL
-------------------------------

### Guest Lecturer // August - December 2018

Developed and presented three lectures, three workshops, and assignments on
building performance analysis using the Design Space Construction workflow
(Grasshopper, EnergyPlus, Radiance) to the entire 4th-year architecture
student body in "ARCH 2220: Environmental Controls II" (Instructor: Prof.
David Hinson, FAIA). Reviewed and graded student assignments.

### Guest Lecturer + Critic // June - August 2018

Presented two lectures on acoustics and lighting analysis to 4th-year
undergraduate students in "ARIA 4030: Interior Architecture Thesis" studio
(Instructors: Profs. Kevin Moore, Matt Hall, Lida Sease). Conducted two desk
critique sessions and participated as a juror for midterm and final reviews.

### Guest Critic // April 2018

Invited and attended as a design juror to review undergraduate thesis student
projects for "ARCH 5020: Thesis Studio" (Instructors: Profs. Justin Miller,
Randal Vaughn).

University of Washington // Seattle, WA
---------------------------------------

### Guest Lecturer // October 2017

Co-presented a lecture and on circadian light analysis (Grasshopper, Radiance,
Python) for graduate students in the seminar course "ARCH 526: Topics in High
Performance Buildings" (Instructors: Prof. Chris Meek, Devin Kleiner, Heather
Burpee) as part of a workshop on the Design Space Construction DSC workflow
for building performance analysis. Co-wrote the documentation and instructions
on running DSC workflow.

### Guest Lecturer // October 2017

Co-presented a lecture on circadian light analysis (Grasshopper, Radiance,
Python) and conducted desk critiques of projects for graduate architecture
students enrolled in "ARCH 504: Graduate Design Studio" (Instructors: Prof.
Chris Meek, David Kleiner).

Singapore University of Technology and Design (SUTD) // Singapore, SG *(and)*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) // Cambridge, MA
------------------------------------------------------------

### Research Assistant // June - August 2013

Developed a curriculum for an introductory class on Building Information
Modeling (BIM) for the Singapore University of Technology and Design (SUTD; in
collaboration as a 'sister' university of MIT), emphasizing BIM as part of a
larger conceptual framework incorporating digital fabrication workflows and
"digital twins" for building operation and monitoring. Produced semester-long
course syllabus, content plan, and the first five weeks of: lecture outlines,
step-by-step lab session instructions, digital models (Revit), and student
assignments.

Auburn University // Auburn, AL
-------------------------------

### Student Instructor // August 2011 - May 2012

Developed teaching materials and instructed workshops on Rhino, Grasshopper,
and design application interoperability for undergraduate and graduate
architecture students. Advised on the development of additional digital media
workshops.

### Teaching Assistant // August - December 2010

Led lab sessions and evaluated student work for undergraduate students in
"ARCH 1000 : Introduction to Careers in Design and Construction" (Instructor:
Prof. Tarik Orgen).



Earlier Experience
==================

The Freelon Group // Durham, NC // *(joined Perkins+Will in March 2014)*
------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Intern // June - August 2012

Produced schematic design drawings, digital models (Rhino, SketchUp, Revit),
presentation boards (Illustrator, InDesign) for multiple renovation projects
and proposals, including: Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library (Washington,
DC); North Carolina Museum of History (Raleigh, NC); John Avery Boys and Girls
Club (Durham, NC).

### Intern // May - August 2010

Created schematic design drawings, digital models (Rhino, SketchUp), physical
models, and presentation boards (Illustrator, InDesign) for several
higher-education and museum projects and design bids.

Produced presentation slides, diagrams (Illustrator), and videos (Adobe
Premiere) documenting the office's portfolio of design work, including the
Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture
(Washington, DC), the Harvey B. Gantt Center (Charlotte, NC), and other
projects.

Worked directly with the company president (Phil Freelon, FAIA) on pre-design
precedent studies and drawings for the Freelon \> REACH exhibition (Wolk
Gallery, MIT Department of Architecture; Cambridge, MA) and accompanying
booklet, as well as design studies for a limited-edition coffee table
(manufactured by Herman Miller).


PEC Structural Engineering, Inc. // Huntsville, AL
--------------------------------------------------

### Intern // May - August 2007

Updated 'red-lined' revisions to construction drawings (AutoCAD), and assisted
in on-site inspections and documentation of various municipal and
single-family residential projects.


Bentley Systems, Inc. // Madison, AL
------------------------------------

### Intern // May -- August 2006

Conducted tests on eWarehouse, an application for plant operators to manage
maintenance of industrial equipment. Reported and tracked trouble reports and
change requests via database (FlawTrack). Created MS Excel macros to organize
trouble report and change request data.



Awards + Recognitions + Affiliations
====================================

Student Category Finalist, Fast Company Innovation by Design Awards (in
collaboration with MIT Media Laboratory Changing Places Group team)

Robert R. Taylor Fellowship (2012-2014), MIT School of Architecture + Planning
(SA+P)

Honorable Mention (2012), Pella Design Portfolio Competition, Auburn
University School of Architecture, Planning, and Landscape Architecture (APLA)

1st Place (2011), Student Design Competition, National Organization of
Minority Architects (in collaboration with Auburn University NOMAS competition
team)

1st Place (2011), Blackwell Prize in Drawing & Painting, Auburn University
APLA

Faculty & Staff Award (2011), Auburn University APLA

1st Place (2011), Pella Design Portfolio Competition, Auburn University APLA

1st Place (2010), Architecture Writing Award, Auburn University APLA

Cooper Carry Architects Annual Scholarship (2009), Auburn University APLA

Dean's List (Spring 2008, Summer 2008, Fall 2010), Auburn University College
of Architecture, Design and Construction (CADC)

President (2011-2012), National Organization of Minority Architecture Students
(NOMAS), Auburn University chapter

5th-Year Student Representative (2011-2012), American Institute of
Architecture Students (AIAS), Auburn University chapter

Member (inducted Spring 2009), Golden Key International Honour Society, Auburn
University chapter

Member (inducted Spring 2009), National Society of Collegiate Scholars, Auburn
University chapter



Publications
============

Haymaker, J., Bernal, M., Marshall, M. T., Okhoya, V., Szilasi, A., Rezaree,
R., Chen, C., Salveson, A., Brechtel, J., Hasan, H., Ewing, P. H., and Welle,
B. (2018) . "Design Space Construction: A Framework to Support Collaborative,
Parametric Decision Making." *Journal of Information Technology in
Construction (ITCon)* , Vol. 23, pp. 157-178. URL:
*<https://www.itcon.org/paper/2018/8>*

Ewing, P. H., Haymaker, J., and Edelstein, E. A. (2017) . "Simulating
Circadian Light: Multi-Dimensional Illuminance Analysis." Presented at
International Building Performance Simulation Association (IBPSA) Building
Simulation 2017 conference, San Francisco, CA, USA, August 7-9, 2017. URL:
*<http://www.ibpsa.org/proceedings/BS2017/BS2017_660.pdf>*

Ewing, P. H. (2015) . "Interactive Phototherapy: Integrating Photomedicine
Into Interactive Architecture." Thesis: S.M., Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT), Department of Architecture. Advisor: Kent Larson. URL:
*<http://hdl.handle.net/1721.1/99275>*



Supplementary Links
===================

Personal Website: *<http://www.phillipewing.com>*

LinkedIn Profile: *<http://www.linkedin.com/in/phewing>*

CityHome Video: *<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f8giE7i7CAE>*